In this video we're going to look at rotations.
There are three types of rotations that you can apply to your notes.
There are rotations being pitch ya in row.
So from this picture when you rotate something around the x axis that know that you rotate it rotates
vertically around itself.
When you rotate something around the y axis that node you rotated rotates horizontally around itself.
And if we were to rotate a node around its axis that node would rotate clockwise around itself so to
start this off I'm just going to delete all of this code.
We're not going to use it any more.
Do come and tell the code that we made for our house we're going to use it later on in this tutorial
and from scratch I'm going to make a pyramid node so that pyramid is equal to.
I see a node with a geometry of NSC and pyramid such that it has dimensions of 0.1 metres
give it a color of blue by writing pyramid dot geometry stuff for Tiriel thought diffuse contents is
equal to you white color blue.
And finally position the pyramid pyramid node position is equal to SDN vector 3.
And we're going to position at it 0.3 meters behind the origin of these that axis.
And finally edged and the pyramid to the senior self does seem view that seen a root node dot child
node.
Pyrmont
So I'm hoping that by now you already know what a pyramid looks like.
Well we're going to do is rotate this pyramid around its x axis.
The main property that's involved in rotations is called Euler angles right pyramid dot orderings Euler
angles control nodes orientation expressed as pitch and roll.
So make it equal to s c and vector 3 and a rumor that s c and vector 3 simply refers to a three dimensional
vector such that your values are X Y and set fields.
So if I put a value right here then I would be rotating the pyramid around its x axis based on the value
that you put if I put a value for the y axis then the pyramid would rotate horizontally around its y
axis based on the value that you put for the y value.
So on and so forth.
So what if I wanted to rotate this pyramid 90 degrees around itself vertically.
You would think that you would just write 90.
However it doesn't quite work like that.
To rotate the pyramid 90 degrees vertically around itself.
You have to convert this to radians.
So in your resources folder this extension can be used to convert from degrees to radians.
So what this does is that it multiplies the integer that you put in by pi and divides it by a 180 to
convert it to a radius.
All you have to do now is back in your SDN vector 3 right 90 degrees to radians and this converts it
into a double value.
We need it to be a float.
So put it as a float.
And now our pyramid is going to vertically rotate 90 degrees around itself to observe this run the app.
And so if I add the pyramid it should be rotated by 90 degrees vertically.
And check it out.
The pyramid was indeed rotated by 90 degrees such that the top of the pyramid is now facing us.
Here's a challenge.
Try and rotate the pyramid such that it's upside down paused the video and give this one a try.
So you've probably done this in high school when you O-Tay something vertically 90 degrees it goes sideways
when you rotate it 180 degrees it goes upside down.
When you rotate it vertically 270 degrees it's sideways as well.
And if you rotate something 360 it just comes back to its original position.
So if we rotate it 180 degrees our pyramid should be upside down run the app.
If I add it it should be upside down.
And indeed it is.
And that is all for rotating something vertically around itself.
X code.
Now as we discussed before rotating something around the y axis gives a horizontal rotation.
We rotated our perimeter around the x axis and indeed it gave us a vertical rotation.
Now we want to rotate our node horizontally.
However it's a bit hard to observe horizontal rotation with a permit.
So instead of rotating a pyramid we're going to rotate an SCA plane so give it a geometry of an A C
and plane with a width and height of 0.3 meters instead of calling this pyramid.
Just make it node instead.
No geometry no dot position no doubt all our angles and our child know pyramid leave the X rotation
at zero.
We're just going to focus on the pitch rotation the Y rotation.
Now before rotating the plane let me just run the up.
So you're already aware of what a plane looks like.
It's just a vertical surface.
Fire rotate the plane horizontally by 90 degrees.
What do you think will happen.
So let's try to put 90 degrees to radians run the app and your plane and there is our plane rotated
90 degrees.
Notice first the plane was facing us and now the plane is facing this direction since we rotated it
by 90 degrees and the wind direction.
Now we're going to look at a Zad rotation the said rotation as we discussed before refers to a clockwise
rotation.
The easiest way to observe that rotation is by declaring a cylinder.
So back into your X code right let plane is equal to A C and cylinder.
Remove these arguments and add the C and cylinder arguments give the cylinder a radius of 0.1 metres
and a height of 0.3 meters.
And now the cylinder if I just go to the documentation I see in cylinder you can clearly see that the
cylinder first is facing upwards.
So here's your challenge.
Try and rotate the cylinder clockwise using the Zed field such that the cylinder is sideways.
Pause the video and give it a try.
So visually I know that if I rotate the cylinder clockwise by 90 degrees it should go sideways
and run up get 5 cylinder it should be sideways.
And indeed it is.
We just rotated our cylinder clockwise using our Zed field.
So now we looked at rotating nodes in the x y and z axis and now there is only one more thing we have
to look at which is relative rotation relative rotation is very important and it's something we're going
to use in many of our apps and this of course most notably the planets up so to our ex-cult project
what if I gave the cylinder a child.
So first off let me just rename all of this so in there since we're not using the plane any more let's
cylinder.
And there you go.
So what if I gave the cylinder a child node.
Declare a new node of let's say a pyramid so that pyramid is equal to I see a node with a geometry
of n s c and pyramid with width of point 1 height of point 1 a length of point 1 as well.
Give the pyramid a color of red by writing pyramid geometry the first material that diffused contents
is equal to you white color red.
And now we're going to make the pyramid a child of the cylinder.
So whatever position we give it is going to be relative to our cylinder.
So pyramid up position is equal to seeing vector 3.
We're going to align the pyramid horizontally and vertically to our cylinder.
But we're going to place it zero point five meters behind the cylinder.
Now make the pyramid a child of the cylinder by running cylinder.
Child node Pyrmont.
Before I run the up I'm just going to under rotate the cylinder and make it a little bit smaller a height
of point 1 meters run the up OK.
If I have my cylinder in pyramid right now the cylinder is zero point three meters away from the world
origin and the pyramid.
Is there a point five meters away from the cylinder.
Now what would happen if fire rotated the cylinder vertically.
Would this affect the positioning of the pyramid at all.
The answer to that is yes.
If you rotate the cylinder node the pyramid which is positioned relative to the cylinder has to preserve
its orientation to the cylinder.
So if you rotate the cylinder vertically by 90 degrees the cylinder is going to rotate 90 degrees around
itself and the pyramid is actually going to rotate 90 degrees around the cylinder to preserve its relative
orientation to the cylinder.
So back and next cold we are going to try.
So if we rotate the cylinder 90 degrees vertically so flow 90 degrees to radiance and the assumption
is that if we rotate the cylinder by 90 degrees 1 the cylinder is going to rotate around itself vertically
by degrees.
But at the same time the pyramid which has to preserve its orientation to the cylinder is also going
to rotate by 90 degrees but not around itself around the cylinder.
So try to soak go in to add my nose and check it out.
We rotated the cylinder 90 degrees vertically so that rotated 90 degrees around itself.
And now where is the pyramid.
It's not behind the cylinder like it was before.
Guess what.
To preserve its orientation to the cylinder the pyramid had to rotate 90 degrees around the cylinder.
So here's the rule of thumb.
If you vertically rotate your parent node around itself the child node is going to vertically rotate
around the parent node to preserve its relative orientation to its parent.
Now what would happen if we rotated our cylinder 90 degrees horizontally.
Well first off it's hard to observe horizontal rotation with a cylinder.
So I'm going to convert this to an S CN plane so that the plane has a width of 0.1 metres and a height
of 0.1 metres is one meaning the plane every single instance.
And now we're not going to have any plane rotation at all.
We're just going to see how the plane and the pyramid look like without any sort of rotation to kind
of have a before and after.
So run up.
So I'm going to add the two notes.
And right now our plane is right in front of us and the pyramid is 0.5 meters behind the plane.
What would happen if I rotated the plane horizontally by 90 degrees.
Where would the pyramid be to our X Project rotate the plane horizontally by non degrees by writing
floats 90 degrees to radians.
Now we're going to observe the results.
I drew two notes and you can barely see the plane because the plane has no depth and it's facing this
way.
There is our plane.
And so the plane rotated 90 degrees around itself.
And since the pyramid is a child of plane a pyramid rotated none in degrees around the plane and it's
right here.
So another rule of thumb that if you rotate the parent node by a certain angle horizontally the child
node is going to rotate around the parent node at that same angle.
Here is a challenge.
Put the plane back to what it was before and try to have it such that the pyramid is under the plane.
Pause the video and give it a try
if you're a visual person you would have concluded the following.
If we rotate the plane 90 degrees downwards and the pyramid is going to rotate 90 degrees downwards
around the plane positioning it right under it.
So give this a try of by putting negative 90 degrees to radians.
Floating negative 90.
And so the plane is going to rotate vertically negative 90 degrees downwards which is going to have
the pyramid to rotate 90 degrees under the plane run the app your to nodes.
We can't see the plane because as we said before the plane has no depth.
And right now the plane is completely horizontal.
So if I go like this there is a plane and right under it should be our pyramid.
And there you go.
Now we're done with relative rotations in the x and y axis.
How would a relative rotation work if we rotate the parent node around it said Oxus while the axis differs
from the x and y axis.
If you rotate the parent node around it's axis it's going to rotate around itself at the same angle.
So put this back to zero and it's hard to observe Zayde rotation with a plane.
So put this back to a cylinder right cylinder is equal to C.A. with an S C and cylinder.
Remove these arguments in place the correct arguments for the cylinder such that we have a radius 0.1
metres and a height of about 1 5 meters.
We're going to rotate our cylinder by 90 degrees 90 degrees to radians make that into a float.
And now here's what should happen.
The cylinder is going to rotate by 90 degrees clockwise around itself.
And since the pyramid is a child of the cylinder to preserve its orientation it's also going to rotate
90 degrees around itself and make sure to just replace wherever it's just plain cylinder to get rid
of these errors.
We should be good to go run the EP.
I'd like to know is the cylinder rotates 90 degrees around itself and is thus now a horizontal cylinder.
And if I look at the pyramid right behind it it rotated around itself by 90 degrees as well.
Back to your actual project.
Delete the code we have for the cylinder and the pyramid.
Put back the code that we made for our house.
What would happen if five vertically rotated the pyramid by 180 degrees such that the pyramid the roof
is upside down.
Would the house just end up looking completely out of shape.
Well we're going to test this by actually placing the pyramid upside down.
Do that by reading node which is what our pyramid is Euler angles is equal to a C and vector 3 and to
rotate it vertically we're going to rotate it across x axis by 180 degrees and we're not going to rotate
it around the y axis.
We're not going to rotate horizontally and we're not going to rotate it clockwise either.
So if the pyramid is rotated 180 degrees what will happen.
We're going to find out.
Going to wait to my world origin loads and as soon as it does add your nose and check it out the roof
rotates vertically 180 degrees such that it's upside down.
But our house is still intact.
Why is that.
Well think about it.
The pyramid is the parent node of the box.
And as I said before the box needs to preserve its relative orientation to the pyramid.
And so if you rotate the pyramid by a hundred and eighty degrees the box is also going to rotate by
180 degrees.
But around the pyramid to preserve its orientation there for preserving the shape of the house and that's
it for rotations.
Now we're finally done with the introductory part of the course and we can start making some really
cool apps.